### 060520: Dance dance dance

BAM. Something woke me up in the early hours of the morning. I was confused. There was no better word to describe my mental state at the time. My chest felt tight; brain fatigued and overworked. I could see no light through the sheers; but frankly, in any case was I in no form to produce coherent thoughts about time, having been summoned prematurely from the depths of my unconscious mind.

I sat up on the edge of my futon bed. The floor beneath my feet felt solid, and from what first seemed like an innocent pinch of chill on my toes emerged an overwhelming wave of cold, that traversed vertically through my body—ruthlessly straightening my spine.

The first notable thing to occupy my mind was the downpour of rain, gently brushing the ceiling above me. The sound was arrhythmic, but soft and pleasant and something that I was lost to, simply listening, for a good while. The comfort was short-lived: in reality, I was losing out on a significant chunk of shuteye (as in the night before, and the night before that, as well as the countless nights recently passed). I knew deep down that it was risky business to leverage my energy reserves; I was knees-deep in water, fully aware of the rising surface, wanting to cut my losses, but lost in the tide.

By now, my legs were borderline numb, and my body fully awake. The coldness was no longer an imposition. There was little point in further resisting the unpleasantness of the bare stone tiles and, in a rather militant manner, my body actualised. Soon thereafter, as my mind caught up, I found myself approaching the kitchen.

My mornings had a ritualistic aspect to them, though I wasn’t sure if they actually qualified as rituals per se. Sure, there was a repetitive framework within which everything occurred: coffee, radio and some reads. However, the events lacked consistency (in how they were ordered); and I could effortlessly lose myself to any of these activities for extensive periods of time. But everything happened semi-consciously: my mind was relatively free to venture elsewhere, as my body performed familiar sets of actions, day-in-day-out. Distinctly, the mornings were blessed by clarity, whereas noon was unreasonably costly for my attention span.

I listened to the ambient symphony, now augmented by a flood of coffee dripping into the glass pan. My nose caught onto the familiar scent, that filled the room. I drifted off but was soon grounded by the bleak realisation that it was yet another Monday. Meaning that another week had passed; another had begun, and soon it too would be lost to entropy, gradually disintegrating from once-a-clear-memory to messy insignificant fragments floating in time. And to top it all off, I would probably be standing in the same spot, yet again contemplating the cycle.

I observed nothing of interest out in the garden. The absence of life was normal at this time of year, I guessed, but the stillness was eerie, nevertheless. It could also be night-time—I was still unsure. Time-of-day mattered little, as I would be unable to return to sleep regardless. Due to my insomnia, time had become more elastic and expendable.

I noticed a full moon in the sky, existing in captivating stillness with few stars distributed across the murky cloudscape. Unperturbed, I poured myself coffee. I walked over to the other room and put on a record; I sat down, and drank the coffee…
