### 270420: A case for postdramatic theatre

*Disclaimer: a late-night ramble.*

These thoughts took root whilst watching *The Imitation Game* on a late Sunday evening in lockdown. At the end of the film is a scene in which Alan Turing breaks down when considering the prospect of the authorities taking away his precious machine. I love the acting in the film, and it has to be noted that the motion picture is *fiction*; but this made me think of the artistic liberties that are inevitably taken in interpreting and representing historical evidence (in filmmaking and the arts in general). As already implied, I am not saying that the creators of the film have ever claimed to make a piece of documentary fiction, but films like this one generally appear as realistic portrayals of past events (whether intentional or not). And I can imagine that, for the spectator, the representation might easily translate into a feasible reality (whether a conscious decision or not). I realise that this is an assumption lacking evidence, but there exists a blurred line between what actually took place and what is represented and only a few are truly qualified to distinguish one from another (i.e. witnesses, experts, scientists, historians, etc. depending on context).

This in turn made me think of the ways in which theatrical devices are used for communicating information. I don’t think that it is fair to compare historical drama to documentary fiction but there is, in my mind, a similar goal that the two share (a recreation of past events for an audience). However, the methods to achieve this are different. Films such as *The Imitation Game*, no matter how masterful in their own right, communicate in the language of realism (as does a lot of drama theatre). The interesting thing about postdramatic theatre is the variety of ways in which time and space take form. Surrealism allows for elastic representations (of time, space, humanity, the physical reality in general); and a peculiar way of communicating in *memes* weaves together energies and forces in the performance space for affect rather than for effect. Staging fragmented images as opposed to fully linear narratives feels more inclusive of alternative realities, interpretations and opinions by offering additional dimensionality to experience. Memes make explicit the (purposeful) distortion of physical reality; however, easily reduced to oversimplifications of complex phenomena. In postdramatic theatre, the medium is the message.

A personal example: if it hadn’t happened already, I fell in love with theatre in 2015 when experiencing *Saasta* (translation: *Filth*) as part of a theatre festival taking place in Vaasa, Ostrobothnia. The scenes unfolded on stage in a poetic fashion, for which meaning emerged from the multimodality of the experience, relating to my subjective perceptions of the world rather than a universal metaphysics imposed by a hand from above (although I thought that the play took quite a clear ethical position on the subject matter it explored). It was also around this time that I had the privilege of experiencing exceptional theatre in my hometown: the town’s theatre of Joensuu, in North-Karelia, staged an eclectic mix of works by both contracted staff and visiting practitioners (*Kaikkeuden enkelit*, *Mä soitan veljille*, *Roberto Zucco*, etc.). I distinctly recall being awestruck on multiple occasions by the dynamic use of space and time. (Fun fact: I played a small part in a reading of Aino Kivi’s inspired play *Kari Krandi*. I adore her work <3.)

I’m bringing this text to an end whilst listening to a Zoom lecture from Federico Campagna. He mentions *worlding* several times, a term popularised by Heidegger that feels very relevant in the context of my ramble. Borrowing Federico’s words (out of context): events on stage are like 'metaphysical parameters to which we can attune ourselves.'

